{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs72\lang9 28 Aug Shift-1\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 * Floating national park is in which state? Ans. \b Manipur\par
\b0\par
* Greenland is in which ocean? Ans. \b North Atlantic Ocean\par
\par
\b0 * Keibul Lamjao national Park is in which state? Ans. \b Manipur\par
\par
\b0 * Scalp missile used in which fighter jet? Ans. \b Rafale\b0\par
\par
* World first amateur billiard title? Ans. \b Joe Earlam (UK)\par
\par
\b0 * Which of the following were present in the Akbar\rquote s Navratnas? Ans. \b Raja Birbal, Miyan Tansen, Abul Fazal, Faizi, Raja Man Singh, Raja Todar Mal, Mullah Do Piazza, Fakir Aziao-Din, Abdul Rahim Khan-I-Khana.\par
\b0 * FIFA World Cup was inaugurated in which year? Ans. \b July 13, 1930\par
\b0\par
* Castle term is related to which sport? Ans. \b Chess\par
\b0\par
* Archery is national sport of which country? / What is National Sport of Bhutan? Ans. \b Bhutan/ Archery\par
\b0\par
* When was Planning Commission of India formed? Ans. \b 15 March 1950\par
\par
\b0 * What is Hematology? Ans. \b Study of Blood\par
\b0\par
* Land of morning calms? Ans. \b South Korea\par
\b0\par
* Which of the following is known as the Black lead? Ans. \b Graphite\par
\b0\par
* Who was the first Indian to win the World Amateur Billiards title? Ans. \b Wilson Jones\par
\b0\par
* Who among the following built the Red Fort in Delhi? Ans. \b Shah Jahan\par
\b0\par
* What is the capital of Laos? Ans. \b Vientiane\par
\par
\b0 * What is the largest freshwater lake in Asia? Ans. \b Caspian Sea\par
\b0\par
* What is the largest riverine island in India? Ans. \b Majuli (Assam)\par
\b0\par
* The Kalahari Desert is in which among the following continents. Ans. \b Africa\b0\par
* The first man-made fibre/polymer is? Ans. \b Bakelite\par
\par
\b0 * Thumri a style of Indian music originated in which state? Ans. \b Uttar Pradesh\b0\par
* Rickets is caused due to lack of. Ans\b . Vitamin D/Calcium\par
\par
\b0 * Which among the following is not in the list of Maharatna company? Ans. \b There are 10 Maharatna Companies Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Coal India Limited (CIL) Gas Authority of India (GAIL), Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), Hindustan Petroleum (HPCL), Power Grid Corporation of India Limited, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL).\par
\b0 *What is graticule? Ans. \b Network of intersecting parallels and meridians on a map.\par
\b0 *When was the first five\f1\endash year plan of India started? Ans. \b 1951\b0\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Who is known as \ldblquote the Las Vegas boy/ kid\rdblquote ? Ans. \b Andre Agassi, American tennis player\b0\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 What is the moon of Neptune planet called? Ans. \b Neptune has 14 Moons. Moving from closest to Neptune to furthest out, their names are Naiad, Thalassa, Despina, Galatea, Larissa, S/2004 N1 (which has yet to receive an official name), Proteus, Triton, Nereid, Halimede, Sao, Laomedeia, Psamathe, and Neso. The first moon to be discovered was Triton, which is also the largest one.\par
\b0\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Where is IRENA headquarter located? Ans. \b Abu Dhabi, UAE\par
\b0\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Antonyms of \endash  wrath Ans. \b Happiness, Good humor\b0\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Antonyms of \endash  erratic Ans. \b Predictable, Consistent\b0\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Antonyms of \endash  felicitous Ans. \b Inappropriate; Unfortunate\par
\b0\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Idiom: Walking on thin ice Ans. \b To do something very risky or dangerous that could result in imminent disaster or ruin.\par
\b0\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Idiom: a square peg in a round hole Ans. \b Someone who does not fit in a particular place or situation\b0 .\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Synonyms: Garner Ans. \b Gather, Accumulate\b0\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Venn: truck, ship, goods Ans.\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Venn: root vegetables, parsnip, carrot Ans.\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Venn: cobra, moth, salamander Ans.\par
\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Aseel: poultry, salmon: Ans. \b fish\par
\b0\f0\lang1033 *\f1\lang9 Lion: prowl, bear-? Ans. \b lumber\par
\fs40\par
\cf1\f0\fs72 28 Aug Shift-2\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 Which woman has won the most Olympic gold medals? Ans. \b Allyson Felix\par
\b0\par
When was the National Anthem adopted Ans. \b 24 January 1950\par
\b0\par
Who was the first Chairman of Finance Commission Ans. \b K.C. Neogy\par
\b0\par
With which of the following sports is the term \lquote Jab\rquote  associated Ans. \b Boxing\par
\b0\par
first female judge to be a part of the Supreme court of India? Ans. \b Fathima\b0  Beevi (1989)\par
\par
Number of Languages in Schedule 8 Ans. \b 22\par
\b0\par
First state to be formed on basis of Language Ans. \b Andhra Pradesh\par
\b0\par
What is the Capital of Slovakia? Ans. \b Bratislava\par
\b0\par
Participation of women in Olympics started in which year? Ans. \b 1900\par
\b0\par
Maximum gold in Olympics is won by which female athlete? Ans. \b Larisa Latynina\b0 , gymnastics (URS, 1956-1964) 18 medals in gymnastics, nine of which were gold.\par
\par
Who is the author of \lquote Animal Farm \lquote ? Ans. \b George Orwell\par
\b0\par
Which of the following is a fat\f1\endash soluble vitamin? Ans. \b Vitamins A, D, E, and K are fat-soluble.\par
\b0\par
Capital of Shivaji Maharaj? Ans.\b  Raigarh\par
\b0\par
Which one is different 1. Brass 2. Aluminum 3. Copper 4. Silver Ans. \b Brass\par
\b0\par
First Indian woman sportsperson to win gold at Table tennis in commonwealth games? Ans. \b Manika Batra\par
\b0\par
Sardar Sarovar dam is on which river? Ans. \b Narmada\par
\b0\par
Dhuandhar waterfall is located at which river? Ans. \b Narmada\par
\b0\par
What is the correct order of arrivals of Europeans to India? \b Ans. Portuguese, Dutch, British, Danes and finally French.\par
\b0\par
Founder of Haryanka dynasty? Ans. \b Bimbisara\par
\b0\par
The first Prime Minister of Kenya? Ans. \b Jomo Kenyatta\par
\b0\par
Who was the first Indian woman to win an Olympic medal in a sport? Ans. \b Karnam Malleshwari Sydney 2000 Olympic Games\b0\par
Akbar Nama was written originally in which among the following languages. Ans. \b Persian\par
\b0\par
Which one is Light Combat/Utility Helicopter (LCH)? Ans. \b HAL Dhruv\par
\b0\par
Which planet is known as Green Planet? Ans. \b Uranus\par
\b0\par
Who is sitar maestro of India? Ans. \b Pandit Ravi Shankar\par
\b0\par
America\rquote s Cup associated with which sports? Ans. \b Sailing\par
\b0\par
Antonym: Transient Ans. Synonyms \endash  Temporary, Unstable \par
         \par
Antonyms \endash  Permanent, \b Constant\par
\par
\b0 Children are delighted ______ the house. a) with b) of c) for d) by Ans. (a)\par
\par
Argentina : Brazil :: ______ : Iran Ans: Iraq\par
\par
\f0\par
\cf1\b\fs72 29 Aug Shift-1\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 WIPO \f1\endash  World Intellectual Property Organization Headquarters? Ans. Geneva, Switzerland\par
\par
What is the use of silicon carbide? Ans. Abrasive and cutting tools\par
\par
Where is Paratroopers Training school? Ans. Agra\par
\par
Siam was the old name of which country? Ans. Thailand\par
\par
Which one of the following is a terrestrial planet? Ans. Mars\par
\par
Which freedom fighter known as Deshbandhu? Ans. C R Das\par
\par
Who is the First Chief of Defence Staff India? Ans. General Bipin Rawat\par
\par
Crawl term is related to which sport? Ans. Swimming\par
\par
Green Revolution is Plant then Silver Revolution is ______? Ans. Eggs\par
\par
Who was the founder of the Chola dynasty? Ans. Vijayalaya Chola\par
\par
Highest wicket taker in world cup history? Ans. Glenn McGrath (AUS) 71 Wickets\par
\par
Odd one out Brigadier, Commander, Admiral, Commodore? Ans. Brigadier, it is an Army rank, others are Navy rank\par
\par
First winner of David Dixon award? Ans. South African swimmer Natalie du Toit\par
\par
Who appoints election commission of India? Ans. President of India\par
\par
Lithium triangle is in? Ans. Chile, Argentina, and Bolivia\par
\par
Who is Player of the Century at Globe Soccer Awards? Ans. Cristiano Ronaldo \endash  Currently Joining MAN UTD CLUB\par
\par
What is the chemical formula of pop (plaster of Paris)? Ans. (CaSO4) H2O\par
\par
What is the Capital of Cyprus? Ans. Nicosia\par
\par
First women to win Dronacharya award was? Ans. Sunil Dabas\par
\par
When was first Emergency declared in India? Ans. 25 June 1975\par
\par
Who did Bardoli Satyagraha? Ans. Sardar Vallabhai Patel\par
\par
What causes rust in wheat? Ans. fungus Puccinia triticina\par
\par
When was Project Tiger started in India?  Ans. 1st April 1973 was launched in Jim Corbett National Park, Uttarakhand\par
\par
When was the Battle of Plassey fought in India? Ans. 23 June 1757\par
\par
Pattachitra is associated with which state Ans. Odisha/West Bengal\par
\par
Which tennis Grand Slam is played on clay? Ans. French Open championships\par
\par
Which of the following Trophy is related to golf? Ans. Many are there like \par
Wanamaker Trophy, Ryder Cup, Claret Jug, Amateur Championship Trophy, Masters Trophy, US Open Trophy, Walker Cup, US Women\rquote s Open Trophy, South African Open Trophy etc.\par
\par
How many bones are found in the upper limb? Ans. 30/64\par
\par
kings cup related to which sport? Ans. Foot Ball\par
\par
Which of the following regions did not form the part of Ashoka\rquote s empire? Ans. Madras\par
\par
Which of the following River originates from Gaumukh? Ans. Bhagirathi River\par
\par
What is Summer Solstice? Ans. Day when Northern hemisphere faces the longest day as Sun is on tropic of cancer.\par
\par
Synonym of Exonerate Ans. Absolve, Release, Discharge\par
\par
Synonym of Advocate Ans. person who publicly supports or recommends a particular cause or policy; publicly recommend or support.\par
Idiom: To get cold feet Ans. A fear of doing something.\par
\par
Idiom: Turning Tail Ans. To turn around and run away, usually because you are frightened\par
\par
Idiom: Mare\rquote s Nest Ans. A false discovery, illusion, or deliberate hoax\par
\par
The director prefers (a)/ your opinion (b)/ than that of others. (c)/ No error (d) Ans. The director prefers your opinion to those of others.\par
\par
Green revolution : Plants :: Silver revolution : ? Ans. Eggs\par
\par
First woman to win Dhronacharya Award?\par
When was first Emergency declated in India?\par
Who did Bardoli Satyagraha? Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel\par
What causes rust in wheat?  the fungus Puccinia triticina\par
When was Project Tiger started in India? 1st April 1973 was launched in Jim Corbett National Park, Uttrakhand\par
Where was the Battle of Plassey fought in India? The Battle of Plassey was fought in north-eastern India on 23 June 1757.\par
Pattachitra is associated with which state? Odisha Patachitra or Pattachitra is a general term for traditional, cloth-based scroll painting, based in the eastern Indian states of Odisha and West Bengal.\par
Which tennis Grand Slam is played on clay? The French Open championships at Roland Garros is the only Grand Slam event to be played on clay.\par
WIPO \endash  World Intellectual Property Organization Headquarters? Geneva, Switzerland\par
Trophy related to golf? Many are there like Wanamaker Trophy, Ryder Cup, Claret Jug, Amateur Championship Trophy, Masters Trophy, US Open Trophy, Walker Cup, US Women\rquote s Open Trophy, South African Open Trophy etc\par
What is the use of silicon carbide? Abrasive and cutting tools\par
Where is Paratroopers Training school? It is in Agra. We already have made a video on our YouTube on \ldblquote PARATROOPERS TRAINING SCHOOL\rdblquote\par
Siam was the old name of which country? Thailand\par
Which one of the following is a terrestrial planet? a: Jupiter b: Mars c: Neptune d: Saturn. Answer: Mars. A planet which is primarily composed of silicate rocks or metals is called a rocky or terrestrial planet. The planet near to the sun are terrestrial planets. Earthlike planets are called terrestrial planets.\par
Which freedom fighter known as Deshbandhu? Chittaranjan Das (5 November 1870 \endash  16 June 1925), popularly called Deshbandhu (Friend of the Nation), was an Indian freedom fighter, political activist and lawyer during the Indian independence movement and founder-leader of the Swaraj Party (Independence party) in Bengal during the period of British colonial rule.\par
Crawl is associated with which sport? Swimming \endash  The words crawl, breaststroke, and butterfly are associated with the game of swimming.\par
Green Revolution is Plant then Silver Revolution is ______? Eggs\par
Who was the founder of the Chola dynasty? Vijayalayawas\par
Who is the First Chief of Defence Staff India? General Bipin Rawat\par
Highest wicket taker in world cup history? Glenn McGrath (AUS) 71 Wickets\par
Odd one out Brigadier, Commander, Admiral, Commodore? Answer: Brigadier, it is an Army rank, others are Navy rank.\par
\u8203?First winner of David Dixon award? South African swimmer Natalie du Toit \par
Who appoints election commission of India?\par
How many bones are found in the upper limb? There are 30 bones in each upper limb\par
Idiom \endash  Cold feet. Meaning \endash  A fear of doing something.\par
Idiom \endash  Turning Tail \endash  to turn around and run away, usually because you are frightened\par
Idiom \endash  Mare\rquote s Nest \endash  : a false discovery, illusion, or deliberate hoax\par
kings cup related to which sport? Football.\par
\u8203?Lithium triangle is located in? Chile, Argentina, and Bolivia make up South America\rquote s \ldblquote lithium triangle\rdblquote  and together hold more than 75% of the world\rquote s lithium reserves beneath their salt flats.\par
Who is Player of the Century at Globe Soccer Awards? Cristiano Ronaldo\par
What is the chemical formula of pop (plaster of Paris)? (CaSO4) H2O\par
What is the Capital of Cyprus? Nicosia\par
Opposite of Nimble?\par
Iodine : goiter , NaCl:? hyponatremia\par
Synonyms of Preamble ?\par
Synonyms of Advocate?\par
Synonyms of Exonerate? Some common synonyms of exonerate are absolve, acquit, exculpate, and vindicate.\par
Which of the following regions did not form the part of Ashoka\rquote s empire? Answer: Madras\par
What is Summer Solstice? is the day when Northern hemisphere faces the longest day as Sun is on tropic of cancer.\par
River originates from Gomukh? the Bhagirathi River\par
Numerical Ability No. of Questions \endash  29 Aug AFCAT 2 2021 Shift 1\par
\par
Percentage Questions \endash  2\par
Work and Time \endash  3\par
Simple and Compound Interest \endash  2\par
Number System \endash  2\par
Train \endash  2\par
Distance and Time -2\par
\par
\cf1\b\f0\fs72 29 Aug Shift-2\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 Ezra cup is associated with which sports? Ans. The Ezra Cup is a popular polo tournament\par
Tax on plunder during the war in Sultanate period was known as Ans. Kharaj\par
Who gave the order to fire in Jallianwala Bagh? Ans. General O Dyer\par
What is the capital of Kerala? Ans. Thiruvananthapuram\par
Nanao Singh thokchom associated with which sports? Ans. Thokchom Nanao Singh (born 8 January 1991) is an Indian boxer from Khoijuman Maning Leikai village in Bishnupur district of Manipur.\par
In which state is the simlipal Bio Reserve? Ans. Odisha\par
Panchayati raj system was first established in which state? Ans. Before Independence Bihar/ Post Independence Rajasthan\par
Revoke term used in which sport? Ans. Bridge Game\par
Lisa Taylor is a model and actress is from which country? Ans. USA\par
Who got the highest medals in Olympics? Ans. Michael Phelps 28 Medals\par
Who among the following was not included in the Ashtapradhan of Shivaji? Ans. Pantpradhan / Peshwa (Prime Minister), Amatya / Mazumdar (Finance Minister), Shurunavis/Sacheev (Secretary), Waqia-Navis (Interior Minister), Sar-i-Naubat / Senapati (Commander-in-Chief), Sumant / Dabir \f1\endash  (Foreign Minister), Nyayadhish (Chief Justice), Panditrao (High priest).\par
In which city is the Danube River situated? Ans. Budapest\par
The highest grade of coal whose surface is shining and has the highest calorific value, is? Ans. Anthracite\par
Who is the governor general of India at the time of Jallianwala Bagh Massacre? Ans. Lord Chelmsford\par
In which year India made first appearance in Olympic football? Ans. In 1948, London hosted the 1948 Summer Olympic Games. The Indian football team made its first Olympic appearance in a match against France.\par
Who appoints the Chief Election Commissioner? Ans. The President appoints the Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners.\par
Northeastern institute of science and technology is situated in which city? Ans. Nirjuli, Itanagar, in the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.\par
What are fat soluble Vitamins? Ans. Vitamins A, D, E, and K\par
Double foul in lawn tennis is known as? Ans. Double Fault A double fault in tennis occurs when the server commits any combination of two faults during one serving point.\par
What is the Vedic name of Outer Himalaya? Ans. Shivalik\par
What are ancient volcanic eruptions on the Moon called? Ans. The lunar maria\par
Katie Taylor is famous boxer from which country? Ans. Irish professional boxer\par
Who was the chairman of the linguistic commission? Ans. B. G. Kher\par
Pitchblende is an ore of? Ans. Uranium\par
WORD: Nimble (Antonym) Meaning: quick and light in movement or action; agile. Antonym: stiff, clumsy, lumbering Synonym: agile, lithe, sprightly, acrobatic, light-footed\par
WORD: preamble (Synonym) Synonym: curtain-raiser, overture, preliminary, prelude, prologue (also prolog), warm-up\par
WORD: Callous (Antonym)  Ans: Synonyms: Ruthless, Unsympathetic          Antonyms: Kind, Compassionate\par
WORD: Audacity (Synonym)  Ans: Synonyms: Boldness, Valour, Rudeness          Antonyms: Timidity, Politeness\par
IDIOM: To fight tooth and nail  Ans: To fight very fiercely.\par
Iodine : goiter , NaCl:? Ans. hyponatremia\par
Odd one out : Parrot, Sparrow, Swan, Vulture Ans: Swan is the only water bird in the group.\par
Odd one out : physics, mechanics, electronic, optics  Ans: Physics All are sub-parts of Physics.\par
Odd one out: stereo, radio, gramophone, television  Ans: Television All are sound producing devices only.\par
Curie : Radium :: Funk : ?  Ans: Vitamins\par
Venn : Examination, Examinee, Invigilator Ans:\par
Venn : Human, Married Couples, Doctors Ans:\par
Venn : deciduous, oak, willow Ans:\par
Teeth: \'85.. :: Tine: fork Ans: Comb A tooth is part of a comb, and a tine is part of a fork.\par
Grove: forest :: \'85. : Lake Ans: Pond A grove is a smaller version of a forest, and a pond is a smaller version of a lake.\par
Ezra cup is associated with which sports? The Ezra Cup is a popular polo tournament\par
Tax on plunder during the war in Sultanate period was known as ________? Khums\par
Who gave the order to fire in Jallianwala Bagh? General Dyer\par
What is the capital of kerala? Thiruvananthapuram\par
Nanao Singh thokchom associated with which sports? Thokchom Nanao Singh (born 8 January 1991) is an Indian boxer from Khoijuman Maning Leikai village in Bishnupur district of Manipur.\par
In which state is the simlipal Bio Reserve? Odisha\par
Panchayati raj system was first established in which state? adopted by the state of Bihar by the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act of 1947\par
Revoke term used in which sport? Bridge Game\par
Lisa Taylor is a model and actress is from which country? USA\par
Who got the highest medals in Olympics? Michael Phelps 28 Medals\par
Who among the following was not included in the Ashtapradhan of Shivaji?\par
In which city is the Danube river situated? Budapest\par
The highest grade of coal whose surface is shining and has the highest calorific value, is? Anthracite\par
Who is the governor general of India at the time of Jallianwala Bagh Massacre? Lord Chelmsford\par
Grove : Forest :: ______ : Lake Answer: Pond\par
In which year india made first appearance in Olympic football? In 1948, London hosted the 1948 Summer Olympic Games. The Indian football team made its first Olympic appearance in a match against France.\par
Who appoints the Chief Election Commissioner? The President appoints the Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners. \par
North eastern institute of science and technology is situated in which city ? Nirjuli, Itanagar, in the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.\par
What are fat solubale Vitamins? Vitamins A, D, E, and K\par
Double foul in lawn tennis is known as? Double Fault A double fault in tennis occurs when the server commits any combination of two faults during one serving point.\par
What is the vedic name of Outer Himalays? Outer Himalaya Vedic name is Siwalik\par
Venn diagram: Human, Married couples, Doctors\par
Venn diagram: Deciduous, Oak, Wimble\par
tooth : ______ :: tine : fork Answer is comb, A tooth is part of a comb, and a tine is part of a fork.\par
Which Intercontinental ballistic missile has 5000-8000 km range? Agni V\par
Antonym of callous?\par
Synonyms of audacity?\par
Idiom: Tooth and nail\par
Choose or find odd word: Dynamics, Mechanics, Electronics, Optics, Physics. Answer: Physics: Dynamics, Mechanics, Electronics, Optics are branches of Physics\par
Odd one out: Radio,Stereo,Gramophone,Television: Answer: Television\par
What are ancient volcanic eruptions on the Moon called? The lunar maria\par
Katie Taylor is famous boxer from which country? Irish professional boxer \par
Who was the chairman of the linguistic commission? B. G. Kher \par
Pitchblende is an ore of? Uranium\par
\par
\cf1\b\f0\fs72 30 Aug Shift-1\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 Which state dance is Sattriya? Ans. Assam northeast India.\par
Who received Bharat Ratna and Nishan-e-Pakistan? Ans. Morarji Desai\par
Who crossed the English Channel first? Ans. Matthew Webb\par
First Indian who crossed the English Channel first? Ans. Mihir Sen\par
Charminar Trophy is associated with Ans. Cricket\par
Which is known as the Mecca of cricket? Ans. Lord\rquote s Cricket Ground, England.\par
What is the Indian standard meridian longitude? Ans. 82\'b030\rquote E longitude of 82o 30\f1\u8242? E is treated as the Standard Meridian known as the Indian Standard Time (IST).\par
Moscow is situated on which Bank of river? Ans. Moskva River\par
Which is the highest point in Andaman and Nicobar Islands? Ans. Saddle Peak (732 Mtrs) is the highest point in the Andaman Islands.\par
Which Article is considered the soul of the Constitution? Ans. B. R. Ambedkar called Article 32 of the Indian Constitution i.e. Right to Constitutional remedies as \lquote the heart and soul of the Constitution\rquote .\par
During which reign Ramcharitmanas was written by Tulsidas? Ans. Tulsidas began writing the Ramcharitmanas in Ayodhya in 1574 CE during the Akbar rule. The exact date is stated in the poem as being the ninth day of the month of Chaitra, which is the birthday of Rama.\par
Which steel plant in India was setup in collaboration with Germany? Ans. Rourkela Steel Plant\par
Who is the author of the book The Bird of Time Song of Life Death and the spring? Ans. Sarojini Naidu\par
Which river is known as Chinese sorrow? Ans. Yellow River also known as Hwang Ho River\par
1st individual to win Guinness world record. Ans. Sir Hugh Beaver\par
Shwetambar Digambar associated with which religion? Ans. Jainism\par
Nimzo Indian Defence is associated with which sport? Ans. Chess\par
Which body part is associated with cirrhosis? Ans. Liver\par
Third Anglo-Mysore War fought between? Ans. Tipu Sultan and East Indian Company\par
Elephant : Calf :: Tiger : ? Ans: Cub\par
Meningitis : Brain :: Cirrhosis : ? Ans: Liver\par
Odd one out: Stair, Escalator, Bridge, Lift Ans: Bridge\par
Odd one out: Ode, Sonnet, Lyric, Epic Ans: Epic All except Epic are different forms of poems.\par
Venn Diagram: Atmosphere, Oxygen, Hydrogen Ans:\par
Venn Diagram: Educated, Hardworking, Urban people Ans:\par
Venn Diagram: Salary, Tax, Dividend Ans:\par
Venn Diagram: Governor, CM and MLA Ans:\par
Synonym of Congregation Ans: Gathering, assembly A group of people assembled for religious worship.\par
Synonym of Eradicate Ans: Eliminate, suppress Destroy completely; put an end to.\par
Antonym of Paucity Ans: Synonyms \endash  Dearth, shortage          Antonyms \endash  Plentiful, abundance\par
Antonym of Disdain Ans: Synonyms \endash  Contempt, disrespect          Antonyms \endash  Admiration, respect\par
Idiom: To smell the rat Ans: To suspect or realize that something is wrong in a particular situation\par
Idiom: To draw a long bow Ans: To exaggerate in telling stories; overstate something\par
Which state dance is Sattriya? Assam northeast India.\par
Who received Bharat Ratna and Nishan-e-Pakistan? Morarji Desai\par
Who crossed the English channel first? Matthew Webb\par
Charminar Trophy is associated with __________? Cricket\par
Which is known as the Mecca of cricket? Lord\rquote s Cricket Ground, England.\par
What is the Indian standard meridian longitude? 82\f0\'b030\rquote E longitude of 82o 30\f1\u8242? E is treated as the Standard Meridian known as the Indian Standard Time (IST).\par
Moscow is situated on which Bank of river? Moskva River\par
Which is the highest point in Andaman and Nicobar Islands? Saddle Peak (732 Mtrs) is the highest point in the Andaman Islands.\par
Venn Diagram: Salary, Tax, Divident\par
Which Article is considered the soul of the Constitution? B. R. Ambedkar called Article 32 of the Indian Constitution i.e. Right to Constitutional remedies as \lquote the heart and soul of the Constitution\rquote .\par
Synonym: \u8203?Precarious\par
During which reign Ramcharitmanas was written by Tulsidas? Tulsidas began writing the Ramcharitmanas in Ayodhya in 1574 CE during the Akbar rule. The exact date is stated in the poem as being the ninth day of the month of Chaitra, which is the birthday of Rama.\par
\u8203?Antonym of Hypothesis.\par
Which steel plant in India was setup in collaboration with Germany? Rourkela Steel Plant\par
Odd one out: Ladder Staircase, Bridge, Escalator\par
Who is the author of the book The Bird of Time Song of Life Death and the spring? Sarojini Naidu.\par
Antonym: Disdain.\par
Antonym of Paucity\par
Antonym: Precarious\par
Which river is known as Chinese sorrow? Yellow River also known as Hwang Ho River\par
1st individual to win Guinness world record? Sir Hugh Beaver\par
Shwetambar digamber associated with which religion? Jainism\par
Nimzo Indian Defence is associated with which sport? Chess\par
Which body part is associated with cirrhosis? Liver\par
Third Anglo-Mysore War fought between? Tipu and East Indian Company William Medows Charles, Earl Cornwallis\par
Which ore is same as hematite? Iron Ore\par
Venn Diagram: Governer, CM and MLA\par
Venn Diagram: Atmosphere Oxygen Hydrogen\par
Venn Diagram: Educated , Hardworking , Urban people\par
\par
\cf1\b\f0\fs72 30 Aug Shift-2\par
\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 First destroyer of Indian Navy Decommissioned in 2021. Ans. INS Rajput\par
First woman to swim the English Channel. Ans. Gertrude Ederle\par
Which of the following is not a constitutional body? Ans. National Advisory Council or NITI Aayog, depends on what was in option.\par
Hazard term used in which sports? Ans. Golf\par
Length of Cricket pitch? Ans. 22 yards\par
What planet is Europa a moon of? Ans. Jupiter\par
The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela? Ans. Long Walk to Freedom\par
What\rquote s the study of insects called? Ans. Entomology\par
Mecca of football in India? Ans. Kolkata\par
Blue ring in Olympics stands for which continent? Ans. Europe\par
Which country is known as Land of thunder dragon? Ans. Bhutan\par
Odometer is used to measure what? Ans. Distance\par
States were reorganized in which year? Ans. 1956\par
First State to be formed on basis of Language? Ans. Andhra State/1953\par
Do or die associated with which movement? Ans. Quit India Movement\par
Motto of Satyameva Jayate is taken from which Upanishad? Ans. Mundaka Upanishad\par
What was the name of Indian army operation in 1988? Ans. \lquote Operation Cactus \lquote\par
The authorized biography of Nelson Mandela? Ans. \lquote Higher than Hope\rquote , by Fatima Meer\par
What is the name of the winds that blow from the subtropical high-pressure belt towards the subpolar low-pressure belt? Ans. Westerlies\par
Capital of Jamaica? Ans. Kingston\par
Pressure and volume constant related to which law? Ans. Boyle\rquote s law\f1\emdash named for Robert Boyle\par
Walking : Running :: Breeze : ? Ans: Storm\par
Prairies : North America :: Downs : ? Ans: Australia\par
Botany : Plants :: Entomology : ? Ans: Insects\par
Odd one out: Ranthambore, Sundarbans, Kaziranga, Corundum Ans: Corundum All except Corundum are animal sanctuaries, while corundum is  a form of aluminium.\par
Odd one out: Grasshopper, Beetle, Beaver Ans: Beaver\par
Venn diagram: poet, politician, women Ans:\par
Venn diagram: River, Canal, Perennial source of water Ans:\par
Venn diagram: Albatross, Sea bird, Gull Ans:\par
Venn diagram: Residence, Resident and Security Guard Ans:\par
Synonym of Promulgate Ans: Publicize, Proclaim Promote or make widely known (an idea or cause); put (a law or decree) into effect by official proclamation.\par
Synonym of Pivotal Ans: Crucial, Central, Vital\par
Synonym of Caveat Ans: Warning, Caution, Limitation\par
Antonym of Culpable Ans: Synonyms \endash  Guilty, Responsible          Antonyms \endash  Blameless, Innocent\par
Antonym of Nascent Ans: Antonyms \endash  Mature, aged, developed          Synonyms \endash  Growing, Young\par
Antonym of Frugal Ans: Antonyms \endash  Extravagant          Synonyms \endash  Thrifty, Economical\par
You should attend ______ this lecture. Ans: To\par
Idiom: To see eye to eye Ans: To be in full agreement.\par
Idiom: To stir the nest Ans: To do something which causes a lot of controversy or produces a situation which is extremely difficult to deal with.\par
\lquote Walk\rquote  is related to \lquote Run\rquote  in the same way as \lquote Breeze\rquote  is related to: Wind As fast mode of \lquote Walk\rquote  is \lquote Run\rquote  in the same way fast mode of \lquote Breeze\rquote  is \lquote Wind\rquote .\par
You should attend __(on/to) this lecture.\par
What is the synonym of promulgate?\par
First destroyer of Indian Navy Decommissioned in 2021? INS Rajput \par
First woman to swim the English Channel? Gertrude Ederle\par
Which of the following is not a constitutional body? National Advisory Council or NITI Aayog, depends on what was in option.\par
Synonym: Pivotal, Promuglate, Caveat\par
Hazard term used in whicch sports? Golf\par
Length of Cricket pitch? 22 yards\par
Antonym of Nascent, Culpable, Frugal\par
What planet is Europa a moon of? Jupiter\par
The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela? Long Walk to Freedom\par
What\rquote s the study of insects called? Entomology \par
Macca of football in india? Kolkata\par
Blue ring in Olympics stands for which continent? Europe\par
Land of thunder dragon- BHUTAN\par
Odometer is used to measure what? distance traveled by a vehicle.\par
States were reorganised by language in which year? 1956\par
Do or die associated with which movement? The quit Indian movement\par
Venn diagram- Poet Politican and Women\par
Motto of Satyameva Jayate is taken from which Upanishad? Mundaka Upanishad\par
What was the name of Indian army operation in 1988? \lquote Operation Cactus\lquote\par
Prairies is to North America as Downs is to \'85.Australia The grasslands of North America are known as Prairies and those of Australia are called Downs.\par
Odd one out: Grasshopper, Beetle, Beaver\par
Venn Diagram: Residence, Resident and Security Gaurd\par
What is the name of the winds that blow from the subtropical high pressure belt towards the subpolar low pressure belt? Westerlies\par
Venn Diagram: River, Canal, Prennial Source of Water\par
The authorised biography of Nelson Mandela? \lquote Higher than Hope\rquote , by Fatima Meer\par
Capital of Jamaica? Kingston \par
Pressure and volume constant related to which law? Boyle\rquote s law\emdash named for Robert Boyle\par
\par
\f0\par
}
 